---
description: >-
  Lot 1: Standard external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 1. Database Developer

_Nature of the tasks_

* Data modelling.
* Database design.
* Database implementation.
* Development, maintenance and integration of database components.
* Implementation of user requirements.
* Prototyping.
* Elaboration of tests.
* Writing of technical documentation.
* Assistance with deployment and configuration of the system.
* Troubleshooting and optimization.
* Participation in meetings with the project teams.

_Education_: EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Good knowledge of data modeling and database design techniques and tools (e.g. SQL Developer Data Modeler, Hackolade, NoSQL Workbench).
* Good knowledge of development tools (e.g. Oracle SQL Developer).
* Good knowledge of relational database systems (e.g. Oracle).
* Good knowledge of NoSQL database systems (e.g. Dynamo DB, MongoDB, Cassandra).
* Good knowledge of SQL.
* Good knowledge of PL/SQL.
* Good knowledge of PL/SQL unit testing.
* Good knowledge of MQL.
* Good knowledge of CQL.
* Good experience of database release management.
* Good knowledge of Agile methodology.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Capability to write clear and structured technical documents.
* Ability to give technical presentations.
* Ability to apply high quality standards.
* Ability to cope with fast changing technologies used in database developments.
* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, ease of communication.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile_ : No
