---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 1. Database architect

_Nature of the tasks_

* Data analysis and modelling.
* Database design and implementation.
* Reverse engineering of existing databases.
* Development, maintenance and integration of database components.
* Integration with other databases.
* Elaboration of test programs.
* Develop best practices for standard naming conventions and coding practices to ensure consistency of data models and databases.
* Writing of technical documentation.
* Assistance with deployment and configuration of the system.
* Troubleshooting and optimization.
* Provision of technical evaluations and audit reports of databases.
* Risk analysis.
* Participation in meetings with the project teams.

_Education_ : EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Experience of data modelling and database design techniques and tools (e.g. SQL Developer Data Modeler, Hackolade, NoSQL Workbench).
* Experience of development tools (e.g. Oracle SQL Developer).
* Experience of relational database systems (e.g. Oracle).
* Experience of NoSQL database systems (e.g. Dynamo DB, MongoDB, Cassandra).
* Experience of SQL.
* Experience of PL/SQL.
* Experience of MQL.
* Experience of CQL.
* Experience of database development best practices.
* Experience of master data management.
* Experience of PL/SQL unit testing.
* Experience of database security.
* Experience of database architecture.
* Experience of database release management.
* Experience of Agile methodology.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Capability to write clear and structured technical and non-technical documents.
* Capability to speak to business and technical audiences.
* Ability to give high level and technical presentations
* Ability to apply high quality standards.
* Ability to cope with fast changing technologies used in database architecture.
* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, good communication skills.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
