---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 10. Test automation specialist

_Nature of the tasks_

* Design, prepare and monitor automated tests.
* Contribute to the development of a plan to integrate automated testing within the testing process.
* Evaluate tools and technology for automation best fit to the project within the DevSecOps approach.
* Create an approach and methodology for building a test automation architecture.
* Design and develop (new or modified) test automation solutions that meet the business needs.
* Enable the transition of testing from a manual to an automated approach.
* Create automated test reporting and metrics collection.

_Education_ : EQF 6.

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Knowledge of test automation technologies, tools and techniques.
* Hands-on experience in the creation of test automation solutions.
* Knowledge of Test Management and Defect Tracking tools.
* Experience in the test data management.

_Certification and/or Standards_

Optional certification :

* ISTQB Advanced Level Test Automation Engineer or equivalent

_Skills_

* Excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
* Good redaction skills, experience in preparation of written reports.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment, rapid self-starting capability and experience in working in team.
* Ability to cope with fast changing technologies used in application developments.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
