---
description: >-
  Lot 1: Standard external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 10. Web Operations Manager

_Nature of the tasks_

* Creation and management of wiki, collaborative sites and content management systems in general
* Guidance and support users in the usage of wikis, collaborative sites and CMS
* Creation and management of M365 services (Teams, OneDrive Business, PowerApps, PowerBI, etc.)
* Guidance and support users in the usage of relevant tools.
* Technical analysis of the business requirements in view of providing an adequate solution within the platforms available
* Implementation of solutions on existing technical platforms, including customisations required.
* Ensure coherence of the logical and physical structure of the collaboration spaces (confluence, sharepoint, CMS, M365/Teams, or within other custom Information systems)
* Frequent review of existing platform usage, correcting misalignments, while coordination with the space users.
* Writing administration and usage procedure manuals
* Participate and follow in corporate meetings and advances on the strategy and usage of these tools within the corporate environment.
* Participate in technical working groups, progress meetings and meetings with the users

_Education_ : EQF 6

* IT relevant or any other degree

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Good knowledge of Confluence wikis and its content administration.
* Good knowledge of Sharepoint sites and its content administration.
* Good knowledge of Microsoft Teams and its content administration.
* Proven conceptual understanding of content structuring, storage, access and presentation elements
* Experience with end-user guidance.
* Knowledge of business process analysis.
* Awareness of software development and service methodologies (e.g., Agile, ITIL)

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Able to cope with the fast changing^ technologies used in collaborative platforms and self-service (no-code) software management.
* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, ease of communication.
* Ability to give technical and solution-driven presentations.
* Good redaction skills.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment, rapid self-starting capability and experience in working in team.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
