---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 11. Quality assurance manager

_Nature of the tasks_

* Elaboration and maintenance of IS quality control procedures.
* Provision of quality plans and service level agreements.
* IS Quality control and evaluation.
* Provision of quality studies, quality assessments or other quality matters associated with information system projects.
* Definition, elaboration, management and reporting of quality tests.
* Advice on quality improvements.
* Assistance in the implementation of project management methodology.
* Coordination of test campaigns.

_Education_ : EQF 6 any degree

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Knowledge of testing technologies, tools and techniques.
* Good knowledge of information system quality assurance and quality control practices.
* Experience with quality procedures.
* Good knowledge of information systems lifecycle.
* Knowledge of software development methodologies (e.g. Agile)
* Knowledge of Test Management and Defect Tracking tools.
* Experience in the test data management with relational databases.

_Certification and/or Standards_

Optional certifications :

* ISTQB Advanced Level Test Manager or equivalent

_Skills_

* Excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
* Good redaction skills, experience in preparation of written reports.
* Capable to communicate effectively with different actors involved (testers, developers, management etc.)
* Strong capacity to give high-level presentations.
* Ability to apply high quality standards.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment, rapid self-starting capability and experience in working in team.
* Ability to cope with fast changing technologies used in application developments.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
