---
description: >-
  Lot 3: Expert external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 12. Expert in Business Intelligence

_Nature of the tasks_

* Creation and maintenance of Enterprise Data Warehouses (EDW) and complex Business Intelligence Solutions (Data Lakes / Data Lakehouses).
* Designing architectures both on the cloud and on premises (whether hosting or cloud on-premises) or combination of both (hybrid).
* Gathering business requirements.
* Designing ETL processes.
* Data virtualization.
* Data modelling.
* Design and development of reporting applications
* Physical DB design.
* DB performance analysis.
* Design of Data Quality and Health Monitoring processes.
* Elaboration of test programs.
* Writing of technical documentation.
* Assistance with deployment and configuration of the system.
* Participation in meetings with other project teams.

_Education_ : EQF 7

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Excellent knowledge of data warehouse design & architecture.
* Good knowledge of data lake/data lakehouse design and architecture.
* Excellent knowledge of relational database systems applied to data warehouse.
* Knowledge of non-relational database technologies.
* Excellent knowledge of SQL.
* Excellent knowledge of business intelligence reporting tools.
* Excellent knowledge of ETL tools.
* Excellent knowledge of modelling tools.
* Excellent knowledge of online analytical data processing (OLAP) and data mining tools.
* Knowledge of near real time data warehousing and/or change data capture technologies.
* Good knowledge of cloud-based business intelligence design.

_Certification and/or Standards_

**Optional certifications:**

* Microsoft Data Analyst Associate
* Microsoft Azure Data Engineer Associate
* Amazon Certified Data Analytics Speciality

_Skills_

* Ability to participate in multilingual meetings.
* Ability to understand, speak and write French and English.
* Ability to work in a team.
* Ability to work with a high degree of rigour and method and, more specifically, to follow naming conventions and coding standards.
* Ability to work in multi-cultural environment, on a large project.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
