---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 13. System Administrator

_Nature of the tasks_

* Administration of DG-specific infrastructures, systems and services, such as file and print-services, RDS service, DG-specific systems and software and hosted applications.
* 2nd level support.
* Installation and configuration of system components and server software, including patch management.
* Operating and monitoring of infrastructure, systems, servers.
* Configuration management tasks & procedures.
* Incident management, Change enablement, Request fulfilment, Problem management: definition, analysis and resolution.
* Preliminary diagnosis of software and hardware problems, also in co-ordination with the central IT departments.
* Advise in areas such as capacity management, contingency planning, IT service continuity management, automation of repetitive tasks, security.
* Coordinate with hosting services.
* Coordinate with database management teams.
* Scripting & configurations in context of systems & infrastructure.
* Handling of backups and restore operations of systems & infrastructure.
* Participate in defining and documenting configuration of systems & infrastructure.
* Participate in defining and documenting operational procedures.
* Participate in architectural design/reviews.
* Draft technical content for knowledge base for use of upstream support teams.
* Evaluation and implementation of security standards.
* Security administration and monitoring, in adherence to the security rules imposed by the Commission’s central security service (complemented by local rules where needed); under supervision of the LISO (Local Information Security Officer).
* Participation in coordination and project meetings.

_Education_ : IT relevant EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Excellent knowledge of (at least) one of the operating systems in the versions used in the Commission (Windows/Unix/Linux).

_Certification and/or Standards_

* ITIL® Certification

_Skills_

* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, ease of communication.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment, rapid self-starting capability and experience in working in team.
* Able to cope with the fast-changing technologies.
* Able to cope with the needs of multi-language deployments.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ Yes
