---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 14. Software packaging engineer

_Nature of the tasks_

* Creation of binaries suitable for distribution and installation in endpoints.
* Involves the creation of packages, envelops, or wraps in different formats.
* Must consider pre and post installation requirements, steps to install, trace, log, and capture exit codes.
* Both for regular applications, App-V, MSI, MSIX or other standard installers.
* Design, development, and implementation of specific software installation solutions (including in hybrid cloud context)
* Management of IS Services related with applications packages (i.e., software distribution, automated software updates services, etc.)

_Education_ : EQF 6 any degree _Specific expertise and technologies_

* Excellent knowledge of executable binaries formats: EXE, MSI, MSIX, APPX.
* Excellent knowledge of Microsoft App-V virtualization technology.
* Excellent knowledge of Windows operating systems
* Excellent knowledge of software distribution systems like LANDesk and Microsoft SCCM.
* Good knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory, GPO policies and Windows registry
* Good knowledge of Windows scripting languages like VBS and PowerShell.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, to help develop creative and practical solutions
* Experience in managing ICT related Projects
* The ability to work in a proactive and independent manner, with a focus on priorities, communication and decision-making capacities
* Good organization, coordination and planning skills – with a high degree of drive and desire to empower ICT change and evolution
* Good communication skills, adaptable to audiences ranging from senior management to technology specialists
* Good documentation preparation skills

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No

{% hint style="info" %}
“good knowledge” refers to at least 1 year of relevant higher education, or at least 12 months of relevant professional experience.
{% endhint %}
