---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 15. SOA Operations specialist

_Nature of the tasks_

* Install, configure, monitor and troubleshoot middleware systems hosting.
* Manage complex SOA and heterogeneous systems.
* Define configuration management and deployment strategies for SOA infrastructure.
* Ensure availability and stability of production environments
* Design and implement DevSecOps capabilities (e.g. observability, continuous monitoring, tractability).
* Work with the development teams in resolving software and related problems associated with the middleware platform.
* Work closely with Architecture, Application Development, Database, Server and Networking Team.
* Manage day to day deployment and maintenance activities
* Analyze and tune IS performances.

_Education_ : EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Good knowledge of Middleware systems (e.g. Weblogic Application Server, Oracle Service Bus).
* Good knowledge of messaging services and platforms (e.g. Java Message Service, Apache Kafka).
* Good knowledge of JEE.
* Good knowledge of Linux.
* Knowledge of RDBMS.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, ease of communication.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment, rapid self-starting capability and experience in working in team.
* Able to cope with the fast changing technologies

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ Yes
