---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 16. CLOUD Operations specialist

_Nature of the tasks_

* Configures, and administers cloud infrastructure and applications.
* Define configuration management and deployment strategies for Cloud resources.
* Ensure availability and stability of cloud production environments.
* Develop, and design software automation and scripts to orchestrate cloud and virtualization technologies with defined scope, schedule and expectations with a focus on Operations.
* Provides subject matter expert technical support to customers using Cloud Platform products, solutions and APIs with a focus on Operations.
* Design and implement DevSecOps capabilities (e.g. observability, continuous monitoring, tractability).
* Work with the development teams in resolving software and other related problems associated with the cloud deployment infrastructure and the code deployed onto platforms such as Database and/or Middleware.
* Manage day-to-day deployment and maintenance activities.
* Analyze and tune information systems performances.
* Security administration and monitoring, in adherence to the security rules imposed by the Commission’s central security service (complemented by local rules where needed); under supervision of the LISO (Local Information Security Officer).

_Education_ : EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Good knowledge of virtualization technologies.
* Good knowledge in scripting languages for cloud infrastructure automation.
* Experience in administering systems in a virtualized Cloud environment
* Strong understanding wof security, risk and compliance frameworks, disaster recovery, high availability architectures, hardware, operating systems and networking connectivity.
* Good Knowledge of Cloud infrastructure setups from vendors such as, but not limited to, Azure and Amazon.
* Knowledge of Middleware systems.
* Knowledge of messaging services and platforms.
* Knowledge of JEE.
* Knowledge of Linux.
* Knowledge of RDBMS.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, ease of communication.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment, rapid self-starting capability and experience in working in team.
* Able to cope with the fast changing technologies

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ Yes
