---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 17. Data Warehouse and Reporting Developer

_Nature of the tasks_

* Development and maintenance on Enterprise Data Warehouses (EDW).
* Gathering business requirements.
* Designing ETL processes.
* Data modelling.
* Design and development of reporting applications.
* Physical DB design.
* DB performance analysis.
* Design of Data Quality and Health Monitoring processes.
* Elaboration of test programs.
* Writing of technical documentation.
* Assistance with deployment and configuration of the system.
* Participation in meetings with other project teams.

_Education_ : EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Excellent knowledge of data warehouse design & architecture.
* Excellent knowledge of relational database systems applied to data warehouse.
* Excellent knowledge of SQL
* Excellent knowledge of business intelligence reporting tools
* Good knowledge of ETL tools.
* Good knowledge of modelling tools.
* Good knowledge of online analytical data processing (OLAP) and data mining tools.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Ability to participate in multilingual meetings
* Ability to understand, speak and write French and English
* Ability to work in a team
* Ability to work with a high degree of rigour and method and, more specifically, to follow naming conventions and coding standards
* Ability to work in multi-cultural environment, on a large project

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
