---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 18. Data Scientist

_Nature of the tasks_

* Collect business requirement and develop advanced data mining solutions or identify, assess and deploy relevant existing data mining, machine learning and business intelligence solution
* Specification and design of presentation interfaces with optimal usability/user experience
* Identify, collect, convert and update different data types/sets in several locations (e.g. ETL)
* Produces data models according to specific problems statements.
* Scripting and programming.
* Contribute to the design and implementation of the analytics architecture and its solution stack (including performance aspects, physical design, capacity dimensions etc...)
* Write the different documentation associated with the tasks and liaise with other project teams as necessary to address cross-project interdependencies.

_Education_ : EQF6 focus on Data management

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Excellent knowledge of Data Analytics techniques and tools.
* Experience in Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing.
* Experience with languages like R, Python, PERL.
* Proficient in continuous code delivery and unit testing
* Good knowledge of business intelligence tools (Tableau, SAS, SAP, GoodData...)
* Expertise in the ETL processes and tools (i.e. Talend Open Studio...)
* Good knowledge of SQL tooling (NoSQL DB, MongoDB, Hadoop, SQL)
* Knowledge of architectural design and implementation of scalable modern data stores.
* Knowledge in one of the following areas: predictive (forecasting, recommendation), prescriptive (simulation), sentiment analysis, topic detection, social media crawling and processing, plagiarism detection, trends/anomalies detection in datasets, recommendation systems

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Ability to work in a team as well as autonomously
* Results-oriented mindset, focused on delivering
* Good communication skills in English, both orally and in written form

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
