---
description: >-
  Lot 1: Standard external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 2. Front-end Developer

_Nature of the tasks_

* Development of front-end website architecture.
* Design of user interactions on web pages.
* Development of features to enhance the user experience.
* Building reusable code for future use.
* Understanding and implementation of security and data protection.
* Cross-platform optimisation.
* Design responsive applications.
* Design and develop APIs.
* Participating in the design and creation of scalable software.
* Maintenance of code integrity and organisation.
* Writing clean, functional code on the front-end.
* Compile and analyse data, processes, and codes to troubleshoot problems and identify areas for improvement.
* Testing and fixing bugs or other coding issues.
* Meet both technical and consumer needs.
* Write technical documentation.

_Education_ EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Proficiency in HTML5, Javascript, ES6, CSS3 and SASS.
* Proficiency in Angular (latest versions, build and automation tools), Bootstrap and Typescript.
* Good knowledge in client-side development of complex applications involving: multi module, Web Components.
* Experience in Web security, authentication and authorization protocols (OAuth, Open ID Connect).
* Experience with the following tools: Git, JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, Nexus, Crucible, Jenkins and Sonar.
* Experience with responsive and adaptive design.
* Understanding of key design principles.
* Understanding of SEO principles.
* Experience in Redux architecture is a plus.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Autonomous.
* Strong organisational and time-management skills.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment.
* Excellent verbal communication.
* Attention to details.
* Good problem-solving skills.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile_: No
