---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 2. Mobile Developer

_Nature of the tasks_

* Architecture, design and implementation of web/mobile applications.
* Analysis and documentation of requirements following the standards and methodologies established by the contracting authority.
* Participate in the analysis and design of database schemas/tables/etc.
* Data analysis and data modelling.
* Prototyping.
* Development/maintenance of applications that reflect the specifications.
* Design and development of architecture components and building blocks.
* Integration with other applications/systems.
* Production of technical documentation.
* Formulation and/or elaboration of test cases/programs.
* Participate in the deployment and configuration of the system (s).
* Participation in meetings with the contracting authority, project teams and user groups.

_Education_ : EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Excellent knowledge of Angular development framework (version 8 or newer);
* Excellent knowledge of HTML5 and CSS;
* Good knowledge of development platforms (e.g. Ionic or a similar one) to develop mobile applications;
* Excellent knowledge of web (progressive) and/or mobile (native/hybrid) application design and development;
* Good knowledge of J2EE including Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and web services;
* Good knowledge of Application Servers (e.g. Oracle WebLogic Server);
* Good knowledge of Relational Database Management Systems (Oracle, Microsoft SQL, etc.);
* Good knowledge of continuous delivery and Application Lifecycle Management tools (Bamboo, JIRA, Git, etc.);
* Good knowledge of Spring and Spring boot;

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Ability to cope with fast changing technologies used in mobile application architecture, design and implementation;
* Very good communication skills;
* Ability to give efficient presentations to technical and non-technical audience;
* Capability of working in a multi-lingual/multi-cultural environment;
* Very good knowledge of English (both written and oral).

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
