---
description: >-
  Lot 1: Standard external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 3. Back-end Developer

_Nature of the tasks_

* Development of back-end website applications.
* Integration of user-facing elements developed by a front-end developers with server side logic.
* Implement core business logic.
* Creation of servers and databases for functionality.
* Design and implementation of data storage solutions.
* Understanding and implementation of security and data protection.
* Optimization of the application for maximum speed and scalability.
* Design and develop APIs.
* Participating in the design and creation of scalable software.
* Taking lead on projects, as needed.
* Maintenance of code integrity and organisation.
* Writing clean, functional code on the back-end.
* Compile and analyse data, processes, and codes to troubleshoot problems and identify areas for improvement.
* Testing and fixing bugs or other coding issues
* Meet both technical and consumer needs.
* Write technical documentation.

_Education_ EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Proficiency with back-end languages and frameworks such as Java, PHP, Spring boot and Hibernate.
* Strong understanding of the web development cycle and programming techniques and tools.
* Familiarity with database technology such as Oracle, MongoDB.
* Knowledge of code versioning tools such as Git or SVN.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not Applicable

_Skills_

* Autonomous.
* Strong organisational and time-management skills.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi-cultural environment.
* Excellent verbal communication.
* Attention to details.
* Good problem-solving skills. _On-call services foreseen for this profile_: no
