---
description: >-
  Lot 3: Expert external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 3. Expert Product Owner

_Nature of the tasks_

* Works within the agile process and is the final authority for decisions regarding priority, business value, and functionality for all the work done by the agile development team.
* Typically supervises several business analysts.
* Possesses an in depth knowledge of goals and desired objectives of the project.
* Interacts and validates requirements with the business
* Propose solutions by combining IT tools and business process refactoring or improvements based on an in- depth understanding of a specific business domain (see skills).
* Creates, maintains, prioritizes, and sequences the product backlog based on business value or return of investment.
* Creates user stories and acceptance tests from themes and features granular enough for a single sprint.
* Is involved in the decision making process related to user stories scheduling into sprints.
* Participates in project planning, daily stand-up meetings (SCRUM).
* Participates to retrospectives, sprint and release planning, demos and other Scrum-related meetings.
* Reviews deliverable and demonstrable product version/software functionalities after every sprint.
* Organizes live demonstration of the product at the end of the sprint.
* Facilitates the acceptance of the product by the business.
* Develops and maintains standards for testing.
* Provides progress reporting.
* Assists with internal and external communication by improving of transparency and dissemination of information.
* Assists with prioritization and resolution of defects / bugs.
* May perform the role of Scrum master.

_Education_ EQF 7 any degree

_Specific expertise_

* Experience with large, enterprise-level multi-user and technologies Information Systems.
* Experience in Agile.
* Good knowledge of agile toolbox (i.e. JIRA, Confluence, BigPicture, Gliffy, Balsamiq, etc.).
* Good knowledge of Application Management Lifecycle.

_Certification and/or Standards_

**Mandatory certification (one of) :**

* Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO),
* Professional Scrum Product Owner (PSPO),
* SAFe Product Owner or equivalent.

**Optional certifications**:

* ITIL certification above ITIL foundation or equivalent).
* Project management certification such as Prince2, PM² or equivalent

_Skills_

* Rapid self-starting capability.
* Excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
* Excellent knowledge broker.
* Delegation and decision making skills.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
