---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 3. System integration and workflow specialist

_Nature of the tasks_

* Design, plan, implement integration strategies and patterns in a JEE/HTTP secured ecosystem.
* Apply best practices of distributed architecture to solve complex integration problems between information systems.
* Design, implement and document APIs to be exposed in a secured manner on a public facing API Gateway.
* Design, implement and document business events to be easily produced on a corporate event-streaming platform and consumed by any system from EC.
* Design, plan, implement and deploy workflows: business process definition and task definition (service or user tasks) relying on APIs and business events.
* Work in a container based infrastructure.

_Education_ : EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Excellent knowledge of HTTP and API design
* Excellent knowledge of JEE and REST or SOAP APIs.
* Excellent knowledge of at least one BPMN workflow engine.
* Excellent knowledge of asynchronous communication and publish/subscribe techniques and technologies: Apache Kafka, JMS.
* Excellent knowledge of integration testing best practices.
* Good knowledge of Docker, Kubernetes and cloud native architectures.
* Good knowledge in GRPC and Protobuf format.
* Good knowledge of distributed or microservice architectures and complex event processing.
* Good knowledge in Web security, OAuth2.0 and OpenID Connect.

_Certification and/or Standards_

Optional certification:

* JEE, Business Process Management, workflow patterns, microservice architectures and patterns, Domain Driven Design, Enterprise Integration Patterns, Complex event processing, API design and security.

_Skills_

* Excellent problem solving skills.
* Excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
* Participation in open source projects.
* Good writing skills: documentation is part of the tasks.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment
* Experience in a large enterprise-level multi-team project
* Ability to produce IT architecture document about complex integration patterns
* Aptitude in reporting

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
