---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 4. Application/Cloud Architect

_Nature of the tasks_

* Analysis of the integration of different information systems.
* Data analysis and data modelling.
* Coordination of the implementation of the technical architecture.
* Technical interface between the project leaders and the developers.
* Production of software architecture documents.
* Participation in technical working groups, progress meetings and meetings with the users.
* Assistance during relevant parts of testing, analysis, technical documentation, deployment, evaluation and reporting.
* Creating designs and blueprints of Cloud Architecture.
* Review of the architecture of existing systems to migrate of existing system in the cloud.
* Design and development of architecture components and building blocks using cloud components.

_Education_ • EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Good knowledge of architecture best practices and patterns.
* Good knowledge of microservices and architecture in the cloud.
* Good knowledge of applications design.
* Good knowledge of modelling tools.
* Good knowledge of Enterprise Architecture.
* Good knowledge of Relational DBMS.
* Good knowledge of business process analysis.
* Knowledge of interoperability technology (web services, message oriented middleware, service oriented bus, event architecture).

_Certification and/or Standards_

Optional certification

* Certified DevSecOps Professional (CDP) certification.
* AWS Certified Solutions Architect.
* Microsoft Certified: Azure Solutions Architect Expert.
* Google Professional Cloud Architect.
* Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD).

_Skills_

* Ability to cope with fast changing technologies used in application architecture and design.
* Excellent interpersonal and communication skills
* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, ease of communication.
* Good redaction skills.
* Ability to give technical presentations.
* Ability to apply high quality standards.
* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings.
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
