---
description: >-
  Lot 1: Standard external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 4. Full-stack Developer

_Nature of the tasks_

* Development of front-end website architecture.
* Design of user interactions on web pages.
* Development of back-end website applications.
* Implement core business logic.
* Creation of servers and databases for functionality.
* Understanding and implementation of security and data protection.
* Cross-platform optimisation.
* Design responsive applications.
* Design and develop APIs.
* Participating in the design and creation of scalable software.
* Taking lead on projects, as needed.
* Maintenance of code integrity and organisation.
* Writing clean, functional code on the front- and back- end.
* Compile and analyse data, processes, and codes to troubleshoot problems and identify areas for improvement.
* Testing and fixing bugs or other coding issues.
* Meet both technical and consumer needs.
* Write technical documentation.

_Education_ : EQF 6

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Proficiency with fundamental front-end languages such as JavaScript, HTML and CSS.
* Good knowledge with JavaScript frameworks and libraries such as Angular and Bootstrap.
* Proficiency with back-end languages and frameworks such as Java, PHP, Spring boot and Hibernate.
* Familiarity with database technology such as Oracle, MongoDB.
* Knowledge of code versioning tools such as Git or SVN.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Autonomous.
* Strong organisational and time-management skills
* Capability of integration in an international/multi- cultural environment.
* Excellent verbal communication.
* Attention to details.
* Good problem-solving skills.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile_ : No
