---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 5. Project Manager

_Nature of the tasks_

* Manage the implementation of information systems to meet identified business needs, acquiring and using the necessary resources and skills, within agreed parameters of cost, timescales, and quality.
* Give proposals for project strategies, planning, definition of tasks and deliverables, review of project deliverables, quality control, risk analysis and management, status reports, problem reporting and management systems, follow up and organization.
* Guide the team in charge of project activities and review their deliverables.
* Participate in functional working groups and progress meetings.
* Estimate costs, timescales and resource requirements for the successful completion of each project to agreed terms of reference.
* Prepare and maintain project and quality plans and tracks activities against the plan, provide regular and accurate reports.
* Monitor costs, timescales and resources used. Take action where these deviate from agreed tolerances. Ensure that delivered systems are implemented within these criteria.
* Manage the change control procedure gaining agreement for revisions to the project from project sponsors. Provide effective leadership for the project team ensuring that team members are motivated and constantly developing their skills and experience.

_Education_

* EQF 6 any degree

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Good knowledge of project management standards and methodologies (Project Scheduling, Strategic Planning, Financial Modelling, Budgeting, Forecasting, Performance Tracking).
* Good knowledge of Agile methodology, Scrum Management, Lean agile
* Meeting Facilitation
* Good technical knowledge on the projects aspects.
* Practical knowledge of reporting methods.
* Good knowledge of project management tools e.g. MS Project, Microsoft Excel.

_Certification and/or Standards_ Optional certifications:

* Project Management Professional (PMP)
* PRINCE2 Foundation/PRINCE2 Practitioner
* Certified in PM2

_Skills_

* Project management.
* Ability to give presentations.
* Ability to apply high quality standards to all tasks.
* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, good communication skills.
* Capability of working in an international/multi- cultural environment, rapid self-starting capability and experience in working in a team, understanding the needs, objectives and constraints of those in other disciplines and functions.
* Leadership capability.
* Negotiation capability.
* Ability to adapt to unplanned changes or decisions.
* Risk assessment.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
