---
description: >-
  Lot 2: specialised external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 7. Business Analyst

_Nature of the tasks_

* Analysis of Business requirements.
* Documentation of Business requirements.
* Business model analysis.
* Business process analysis.
* Business processes modelling
* Functional requirements and business cases analysis.
* Risk analysis.
* Assistance in Business cases, Vision documents, Project Charters and Security Plans.

_Education_ : EQF 6 any degree _Specific expertise and technologies_

* Good knowledge of information systems matters.
* Good knowledge of large organisation administrative business processes.
* Good knowledge of analysis/modelling tools and techniques (use case diagram, state diagram, entity relationship model, interaction diagrams etc.).
* Good knowledge of BPMN or UML or other with equivalent value.
* Good knowledge of Wiki and collaborative sites.
* Knowledge of software development methodologies (e.g. RUP, Agile).

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Rapid self-starting capability.
* Excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
* Strong capacity in preparing and writing business analysis.
* Capability to speak to business and technical audiences.
* Strong capacity to give high-level presentations.
* Excellent critical thinker, by using logic and reasoning to identify strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions.
* Ability to apply high quality standards.
* Ability to participate in multi-lingual meetings, excellent communicator.
* Capability of working in an international/ multicultural environment.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
