---
description: >-
  Lot 3: Expert external consultancy services in the field of information
  systems
---

# 9. Expert in Information and Document Management

_Nature of the tasks_

* Provide expert advice on defining policies and strategies for content, records, archives and information management, including capture, selection, retention and digital preservation.
* Contribute to the design, development and maintenance of records, archives and information management systems and to the technical implementation of new or adapted policies.
* Identify requirements for content, records, archives and information management systems and draw up functional and/or technical specifications.
* Elaborate system integration and data migration approaches for legacy repositories.
* Develop and maintain solutions for long-term digital preservation and archiving in accordance with the applicable legal framework, including support of encryption, digital signatures, confidentiality, secure access to documents and data protection.
* Contribute to the definition and implementation of metadata standards for content and records management, including archival description.
* Implement data publication and exchange solutions by exploiting potential advantages of linked open data and semantic web technologies.

_Education_ : EQF 7&#x20;

_Specific expertise and technologies_

* Knowledge of standards and best practices in the domain of records, archives and information management, digital preservation and public access to documents.
* Experience in design and implementation of content, records, archives and information management systems in public or private sectors.
* Experience in implementation or support of large- scale, enterprise-grade multi-user information systems, active participation in projects implementing or using Enterprise Content Management (ECM) or long-term digital preservation platforms.
* Practical experience in information management, ontology design, metadata management, open data technologies, document encryption, digital signature, full-text search techniques and semantic web technologies.
* Good knowledge of agile process and methodologies.
* Familiarity with web services, enterprise integration patterns and best practices as well as knowledge of cloud platforms and database management systems will be considered as an asset.
* Experience in configuring, customising and operating document management information systems such as OpenText Documentum, Alfresco or equivalent document management platforms is an advantage.

_Certification and/or Standards_

* Not applicable

_Skills_

* Analytical thinking, excellent problem solving skills
* Agility, results-oriented attitude
* Ability to work autonomously
* Team spirit, cooperation, willingness to work in an international/multi-cultural environment
* Good communication skills in English and French.

_On-call services foreseen for this profile :_ No
